Interlibrary loan

Borrow from other libraries

Need to request print or electronic materials that aren't available at Rutgers? You can use interlibrary loan (ILL).

After you place your request, you'll receive an email when your item is ready for pickup or available to download. Learn more about how to request a library item for pick up. Turnaround time and lending policies vary by institution.

Interlibrary loan is available to current Rutgers students, faculty, and staff; faculty emeriti; retirees; visiting scholars and students; RBHS volunteer faculty; and Rowan and CCC affiliates.

Not sure how to get started? Follow this guide for step-by-step instructions.

Start with QuickSearch

The quickest way to have an item delivered to you is to find it in QuickSearch. If an item in QuickSearch is unavailable, sign in to view your request options. Articles and book chapters are delivered electronically. All other materials can be picked up at your Rutgers library of choice or delivered to your home. View steps on how to borrow request a scan of articles or book chapters on Request a Scan or Digital Copy.

Sign in to QuickSearch

Not there? Try one of these options...

Search via EZBorrow

For the fastest turnaround times from our nearby lending partners.

EZBorrow is the shared catalog of PALCI, a large network of regional academic and large public libraries. Turnaround time is fast (usually 3-5 business days) and the loan period is 12 weeks. Books requested through this service are typically available quickly due to geographic location. You may be prompted to sign in at point of request if you have not signed in prior to view all your request options.

Search EZBorrow

Request via ILLiad

A worldwide search for the hardest-to-locate items.

If the item you desire was not found in QuickSearch or EZBorrow, place your request via ILLiad for access to the collections of our consortial and worldwide partner libraries. Lenders who provide the quickest delivery and longest loan periods are prioritized.

Log into your ILLiad account to place and track requests (first-time users will be prompted to register.)

Log in to ILLiad with your NetID

Log in to ILLiad with a Barcode

Looking for Textbooks?

Unfortunately, we can't facilitate interlibrary loan requests for textbooks or other required course materials. Because they are generally used as course reserves at their respective institutions, these items are not eligible for loan to other libraries.

Students can purchase or rent textbooks through the Rutgers University Bookstore, while instructors can request that items be put on reserve or added to reading lists for their students. Instructors are also encouraged to work with the Libraries through our subject specialist librarians or Open and Affordable Textbooks Program to identify free or low-cost alternatives to their traditional course materials.